# SING - 2026-01-06

_Minutes summary by Zoom, reviewed manually_

## Partipants
 - Tommaso
 - Tom
 - Kevin
 - Patrick
 - Simone

## Notes

### Welcome
  * [exchanged New Year greetings]
  * Simone: I am testing the minutes taker for the first call of the year.
  

### Next meetings

  * Simone: The upcoming meetings are on January 20th and February 3rd.
  * Simone: There may be a conflict with a FIDO event that could require Justin’s attendance due to discussions on geofential CPI.

### Security Revirews

  * Simone: We have another request for CSS reviews.
  * Simone: I suggested reaching out to someone interested in contributing to the CSS threat model.
  * Simone: For the RDF, I am syncrhonizing with the Privacy Working Group, to have some explanations.
  * Simone: For VCWG charter, thanks to Joe, a threat model is included as a deliverable in the charter. Privacy reviewers discussed the possibility of documenting privacy properties directly in the charter.
  * Simone: Nishant is currently working on another CSS, they would like to talk with the IG.
  * Tommaso: Reviews should be considered as a group decision or an individual effort?
  * Simone: We used the process from privacy, for publishing public statements on security reviews.
  * Simone: For them, reviews as personal contributions, while using group discussion to refine them.

### Call for Consensus: Publish the First Note Draft for Threat Modeling Guide  
  * Simone: It is difficult to analyze standards that do not include a threat model.
  * Simone: This is an initial draft, and some sections still need to be added.
  * Simone: We plan to include examples of threat models and security considerations sections.
  * Simone: Working groups should first create a threat model and then derive security considerations from it.
  * Simone: An example is the Digital Credentials API work.
  * Simone: Having a threat model makes writing security considerations more efficient.
  * Simone: It is like “If I only had an hour to chop down a tree, I would spend the first 45 minutes sharpening my axe”, it becomes “If I only had an hour to write my security consideration section, I would spend the first 45 minutes on the threat model”
  * Simone: Any objection to publish?
  * [no objections]
  
### Meeting time discussion
  * Simone: I proposed moving the meeting time to around 5 PM Pacific time to better accommodate participants on the West Coast. Before sending a doodle, please mail me your constraints.
