# SING – 2026-02-03

*Minutes summary by AI, reviewed manually*

## Participants

- Simone Onofri
- Tommaso Innocenti
- Amir Sharif
- Patrick Schaller
- Joe Andrieu
- Giovanni Corti
- Zahra
- Rob Padula
- Will Abramson
- Nishant Jain

## Notes

### Administrivia

*Simone Onofri*: As usual, I have enabled our AI overlord to assist with the minutes so humans do not have to suffer. I will elaborate manually later and publish them.

*Simone Onofri*: If you are here, it is because you are part of an interest group or because we invited you to talk about threat modeling. Please discuss topics and not people, because we all share the same objective.

### Participants Introduction (2 minutes roundtable)

*Simone Onofri*: I am Simone. I am the security lead at W3C, and I am happy to do reviews.

*Amir Sharif*: Hi everyone, I am Amir. I am a researcher at Funder-Kessler, working in the field of digital identity for quite a while. I am a colleague of Giovanni and Zahra, and we work mostly on threat modeling and on security and privacy by design for digital identity solutions.

*Tommaso Innocenti*: Hi everyone, I am Tommaso Innocenti. I previously did a PhD at Northeastern, where I focused on authentication protocols and the OAuth standard. Now I work on securing AWS systems as part of the GuardDuty team, specifically the SAR team, and I am happy to be part of the group.

*Giovanni Corti*: As Amir mentioned, we are colleagues. I work as a research assistant, mainly focusing on addressing security, privacy, and safety concerns in national digital identity systems.

*Joe Andrieu*: Hi, I am Joe Andrieu from Legendary Requirements. We are a small consulting firm dealing with decentralized identity. I am an editor of the DID and VC use case documents and of the Threat Modeling Guide, and I will be leading the threat modeling work for the DID ecosystem, including DID Resolution and DID Core 1.1.

*Patrick Schaller*: I am Patrick. I work at ETH Zurich as a senior researcher and I am the Advisory Committee representative for ETH at W3C. I work on security protocols, applications of cryptography, and information security in general, and that is why I am here in the Security Interest Group.

*Zahra*: Hi everyone, I am Zahra. I am a colleague of Giovanni and Amir. We work on national digital identity solutions and on security by design for these systems. Sorry, I cannot fix my camera quickly, so you cannot see me.

*Rob Padula*: Hi, I am Rob Padula from Legendary Requirements. I will be working on threat modeling and getting up to speed with the work of this group. It is good to be here.

*Will Abramson*: Hi everyone, I am Will Abramson. I work with Legendary Requirements and I am the chair of the Decentralized Identifier Working Group. I will be helping to start the threat modeling work for DID Resolution and related specifications.

*Nishant Jain*: Hey everyone, my name is Nishant Jain. I am an invited expert in this group. I work at Atlassian, and I am happy to be part of the group.

### Next meetings

*Simone Onofri*: The next meetings will be on February 17 and then on March 3.

### Deliverables / process updates

#### Threat Modeling Sessions

*Simone Onofri*: We are planning threat modeling sessions under both the Security Interest Group and the Threat Modeling Community Group, so anyone can join to help people do threat modeling.

*Simone Onofri*: We already did similar sessions with RDF, and we will repeat this work with DIDs. We also have the opportunity to organize threat modeling sessions using LEGO, one in Barcelona and another one in Madrid.

#### Bumping CfC

*Simone Onofri*: I am bumping the call for consensus for the Vulnerability Disclosure and Handling Process. This document explains how we manage vulnerabilities and security researchers at W3C, especially for standards. Hearing no objections from participants, I am going to resend the CfC.

*Simone Onofri*: We are also bumping the call for consensus for the Threat Model for the Digital Credentials API, and is being coordinated with the Federated Identity Working Group. Hearing no objections from participants, I am going to resend the CfC.

### Community / coordination

*Simone Onofri*: Breakout Days 2026 are coming up. If you have ideas, research, or security topics that could be interesting, this is a good opportunity to propose them.

### Security Reviews

*Simone Onofri*: We have several open security reviews that need volunteers, both for specifications and for charters.

*Simone Onofri*: The Devices and Sensors Working Group charter is very focused on security and privacy. We already looked at the Vibration API with them, and we can still add threats or considerations if needed.

*Simone Onofri*: We also received an EPUB-related request. They are asking for a DAPR check and possibly a triage this week. If anyone would like to participate, just let me know.


## Meeting with DID

*Simone Onofri*: The DID Working Group asked for a revision of some documents, and they joined today to explain DID concepts in order to speed up our security review.

*Joe Andrieu*: The DID Working Group has committed to finishing threat modeling by the end of Candidate Recommendation, because we want to get into CR with proper security analysis in place. We are already in CR for DID Core 1.1, but we are not yet in CR for DID Resolution.

*Will Abramson*: We are not yet in CR for DID Resolution.

*Joe Andrieu*: We are dealing with multiple interrelated specifications. For DID work alone, we have at least half a dozen different specifications that require threat modeling. These specifications were developed hand-in-hand with Verifiable Credentials, so concepts sometimes blur between DID and VC, and the security models will help us clarify those boundaries.

*Joe Andrieu*: Instead of treating each specification in isolation, I am proposing a shared architectural approach. The idea is to develop a common diagram that can be reused across threat models. Each specification can add its own components, but we should use the same names and same architectural view for shared elements. I call this a “constellation” of specifications.

*Joe Andrieu*: This constellation approach allows us to reason not only about the threats of a single specification, but also about how different specifications integrate with each other and with technologies that are outside our control. For example, CTAP is not controlled by the DC API group, but it introduces risks that affect DC API. The interaction itself becomes part of the threat surface.

*Joe Andrieu*: Today I focused on presenting a high-level data flow diagram for DID Resolution. The goal is to get this diagram reviewed by the group, iterate on it, and confirm that it represents the relevant use cases and scenarios. Once the diagram is stable, we can enumerate threats against it more effectively.

*Joe Andrieu*: The plan is to first complete a threat model for DID Resolution, which I do not expect to take very long once the diagram is agreed upon. Then we will reuse the same diagram and extend it to cover DID Core 1.1. Both threat models should be completed before we exit CR.

*Will Abramson*: I wanted to clarify whether the expectation from the Security Interest Group is that each specification should have a separate threat model document, or whether it is acceptable to document threats directly in the security considerations section of the specification.

*Joe Andrieu*: If the threat model is concise, it is acceptable to include it directly in the security considerations section of the specification. Alternatively, it can be published as a separate note and referenced from the specification, highlighting the most important points.

*Joe Andrieu*: For smaller specifications or smaller contributions to the constellation, it may be sufficient to list a small number of threats without creating a full standalone threat model document.

*Nishant Jain*: When we reference threat models across specifications, do we have guidance on where these threat models should be published? Should they live in individual repositories, or should there be a shared repository or standardized structure?

*Joe Andrieu*: At the moment, I have been assuming that threat models live in the repositories of the specifications they belong to. We do not yet have shared infrastructure or a defined expectation for centralizing them.

*Simone Onofri*: This is a good point and worth exploring. We may add recommendations to the Threat Modeling Guide. Today, some threat models live in separate repositories, such as in the Web of Things work. At the very least, we need a way to track which specifications have an associated threat model.

*Simone Onofri*: The important part is that threat models can reference each other when specifications are connected. How they are structured and published should support that goal.
