# [SING] 2024-12-18-minutes

# Metadata
## Attendees
(please add yourself here)

- Tommaso Innocenti
- Denis Roio
- Patrick Schaller
- Simone Onofri
- Joe Andrieu
- Amir Sharif
- Artur Janc (Google Security)
- Jeffrey Yasskin (Google Chrome)
- Kevin Dean
- Samuel Schlesinger
- Sebastian Crane
- Tom Jones
- Veronica Cristiano

## Chair
 - Simone Onofri

## Scribe
 - Denis Roio

# Notes

## Administrativia

[slide 1-3]

Welcome everyone, have a look at W3C code of conduct please and enjoy participating to SING!

Slides shown in this meeting are here https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16v7zrkQ7SghR6T7y49-s8Wrkq8jlFQ5zpHofMUa5lqY/edit#slide=id.p

There is a chat channel for the group on W3C's IRC: #sing

but most people abandoned our good old internet relay chat protocol for Slack, so we have also a Slack channel. Invites should be requested to Simone.

## Participants introduction
[slide 4]

[Roundtable of participants]

##  Group Introduction
[slide 5]

Simone: We have an introduction on tools and dashboards available for our work
https://github.com/w3c/securityig/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
there are quite some handy tools and even a leaderboard of contributors

## Group Tools
[slide 6]

The main tools are:
- chair dashboard
- comment tracker

Most of the reviews and discussion takes place on Github.com/w3c/securityig

[slide 7-9]

The SING group has two main activities:
1. security reviews: review charters and specs
  A good fresh example is the recent review of the Vibration AP  
2. thread model analysis: identify threats, mitigations and assumptions


[slide 10]
Artur: We should produce guidance on how to review consistently. Chromium does this with https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/docs/security/web-platform-security-guidelines.md.

Simone: Yes, we'll build that into https://github.com/w3c/securityig/blob/main/administration/how-to-review.md.

Tom: the TMCG will be included in SING?

Simone: We discussed the differences between the SING and the TMCG, relevant since many people who joined SING today are experts and interested in TM. We so far envision the TMCG as a *community group* which is more open and less focused on reviews than the SING, it will eventually be a larger space for outreach and with more open access (no invites or affiliation needed) around the SING. We would like to involve this way more stakeholders in security, not just technical people. But if it doesn't takes off it will simply be closed, we'll be watching and facilitating.


Jeffry: There is a group decision on autopublishing the security questionnaire, happening in a couple weeks on the mailing list and which will be communicated to the TAG

The TAG will likely drop responsibility for the security and privacy questionnaire and will in future be taken up by the SING

## Next meeting
[slide 11]

Simone: we need to decide for our recurring call, we'll use the mailing list for that.

## AOB

[slide 12]

Simone: Happy holidays

[adjourn]
