# SING 2025-05-27

## Notes

### Post-Quantum Cryptography  In Digital Identity

- Andrea
  - [slides] https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PO7rmtEydBMhpLWLR8l2vCas6nfCLM5kyDaTt6tTrSU/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p 
  - Shor's algorithm breaks all the asymmetric cryptography, and it is not a computation running on quantum hw
  - The problem is that in 2 or 3 years (at least from people on social networks), the actual cryptography will be broken
  - NIST started a PQC competition in 2016-2022 to battle-test algorithms, standardized in 2024
    - Kyber (Key Encapsulation Mechanism)
    - Dilithium (Digital Signature Algorithm)
    - Sphincs+  (Stateless Hash-Based)
    - Falcon, Work in Progress
    - HQC, Work in Progress (as a backup for Kyber)
- Algorithms are implemented in C (originally), then Golang, Java, ML-DSA, and Rust
  - A key consideration is Crypto Agility and Hybrid methods for the transition (classical and PQC)
- We're working within CCG for Quantum-Safe W3C VCs
  - Before was a Proof of Concept, now implemented correctly
  - The main differentiator of W3C VC is canonicalization: a way to ensure that the credential's content is deterministically arranged at any given time. Important for Security
  - Implementation is made by inporting the libs
  - then we have a LUA layer
  - then a DID
  - in our platform, it is possible to test them
-  EUDI challenge
  - Verify a Qualified Electronic Attestation and an Electronic Attestation, produced by a server that needs to be tamper-proof with an HSN. Then use for SD-JWT and mDL as a format
  - then produce a PID, with PQC signature
  - Technical requirements:
    - Issuer with huybrid crypto
    - Mobile Wallet should support PQC: someone produces it via API calls
    - Euro-centric standard, do we trust NIST in the EU? Are there other options to standardize in time?
    - How do we manage HSM on the server and mobile?
- Standardization: PQC goes into SD-JWT
   - On signing PDF documents with PQC
   - Tech requirements
    - A Certification Authority with a PQC signature and public key
    - Produce a PQC signature
    - Embed the PQC in the PDF
    - The client needs to verify the signature
    - AdES/XAdES...
- Selective Disclosure + ZKP + PQC in collaboration with QUBIP
  - The objective is to issue and verify credentials with ZKP PQC 
  - Math is still in the very early days, needs 5+ years of research
  - BLNS is using the three-party model
  - Math similar to Falcon (Lattice)
  - Should be improved
    - Efficiency
    - Security
    - Standardization (10+ years?), Qubip now uses NTL for math
- There is a paper by [Frigo, Shalef](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-google-cfrg-libzk/) about ZKP allowing mobile wallets to start from a non-PQC to have a ZKP based on circuits. 
- PQSpread verification in a serverless and offline way
- Veroinica:
  - Thank you for the presentation. A question about some dates for the Q-day?
- Andrea:
  - There was an estimate about people on social network, there was a lot of discussions.
  - Some people discussed about how many q-bits are needed.
  - From a list of manufacturers, someone is expected to produce these qbits in 2027-2029
- Veronica:
  - Previous estimates are about 2035
- Denis:
  - Some papers https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.15917, https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.15917, https://sam-jaques.appspot.com/quantum_landscape, they recently changed from 2035 to less.

### AI Threat Model
- Tom:
  - As I have received some feedback from Google, in general, the problem is complicated
  - I tried to describe the problem within the depicted schema. 
  - Each website can run JavaScript and technically can poison the browser, potentially with pre-poisoned LLM
- Joe:
  - Thank you for the great representaion. I would like to ask a taxonomy about that.
- Tom:
  - Good idea

## Participants
- Simone Onofri (W3C)
- Patrick Schaller
- Denis Roio (Jaromil)
- Veronica Cristiano
- Andrea D'Intino
- Tom Jones
- Kevin Dean
- Joe Andrieu
