# SING 2025-02-04

Chair: Tommaso Innocenti.

## Participants

* Manu Sporny (Digital Bazaar)
* Denis Roio (Jaromil)
* Simone Onofri
* Tommaso Innocenti 
* Robert J. Padula
* Tom Jones
* Amir Sharif
* Joe Andrieu
* Kevin Dean
* Samuel Schlesinger
* Veronica Cristiano
* Xu Lin
* Paul Ziv
* Greg Bernstein

## Notes

[slides https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17tT91kkXekGOHV01Q-qP6vi_wEHWEvmI9o8Z2j0S9ro/edit#slide=id.p]

### Administrivia
[slide 3]

### Participants Introduction
[slide 4]

[intros]

### Security Reviews

[slide 5]

Tommaso: There is quite a long backlog, which won't be done in a month, but feel free to participate in reviews. We have charters and Specs to review. We also prepared some Guides to get started.

## VCDM Review

[slide 6]
[slide 7]

Tommaso: We started with the Security Questionnaire, which refers the RFC 3552. It specifies a protocol threat model, but VCDM is a file format. 

[slide 8]

This is why we created another Threat Model specific for the file formats attacks and cross-checked with theche CIA triad: Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability (which doesn't applies in our case).

We found that Identified Threats are Mitigated, and proposed some editorial changes such as adding Security Assumptions explicitly and then Mapping threats with mitigations.

Our approach was to talk with the Groups, spending hours trying to understand VCDM in detail with all stakeholders currently involved in SING.

Manu: We had some issues with time, as some delays accumulated before the start of SING. This review is very useful to move forward. Are the recommendations something we have to do before reviews (and their implementation is going to be a blocked) or they can go in parallel?
Simone: they can mostly go in parallel, we can also work on a Threat Model document, which is part of the Security Considerations section.

### Security Reviews

[slide 9]

Tommaso: coming back to the reviews we need some reviewers for the document, some are urgent 

[discussion of interests in different specs]


### Deliverables

[ slide 10 ]

Tommaso: we have some deliverables on our Charter:
    - Security Questionnaire (SP)
    - TM guide (TMG)
    - TM for the Web (TMW)
    - Sec. issue template

Simone: We talked with the Chairs. I can be the editor of the SP. For the Threat Modeling Guide/Web, the approach of the Threat Model is just the first step to a security view. More analysis is needed on protocol security and algorithms used for verification (including their cryptographic models). It is important to understand the relationship between TM and Sec. review.


### Next Meetings
    
[slide 11]
    
Tommaso: Goal is to have 2 meetings each month, next:

    - 18 February
    - 4 March

### AOB

Tommaso: We are looking to find more reviewers and other participants as security researchers and cryptographers.

Simone: It is important to observe the segregation of duties and not have the same reviewers and editors on a document, even if there will be collaboration between the specs editors and the reviewers.

Joe: common TMG responding to?

Simone: it is a guide for Threat Modeling in our context , if we are asking specs editor to Threat Model, it is good to provide guidance. With the review we started, we're evaluating different models and frameworks, such as the Four Question Framework by Shostack.
 
Joe: We used also STRIDE, but it focuses on active attackers, but in some cases misses some important aspects
Adversarial analysis important to be flexile and use any of the available frameworks when they best fit

Simone: We're evaluating also the PASTA model.

Joe: happy to help with the TMG/TMW.

Tom: We have also on the TMCG an AI Threat Model that I prepared talking with Blink people.

Simone: on TMCG, we can have also the Identity Threat model. Maybe we can rise a call for adoption by this group. And decide what to do with TMCG
