# SING 2025-10-28

## Notes

## TPAC Agenda preparation

https://github.com/w3c/securityig/issues/30

Simone: No meeting on 11 Nov, we'll meet at TPAC.

## CfC for Crypto in Standards

https://github.com/w3c/securityig/issues/33

Veronica: [sharing the document] Recommendation to spec developers for someone who is not familiar with cryptography but needs to use it in their standards. There are no such documents that collect the primitives. We have a part for presenting different SDOs. The bigger part is section 7, divided into more subsections on how to use these standards, with links and references. There will also be a breakout session about that. Good to know there are de facto and de jure standards. There are also some important definitions (e.g., authentication and authenticity).

Simone: We already received some feedback from Anne (Firefox) for the contribution.


## CfC for Vulnerability Disclosure

https://github.com/w3c/securityig/issues/13

Tommaso: Chair hat on. I agree and support the adoption, even though I understand Jeffry's concern.

Patrick: Chair hat on, I agree with what Tommaso said.

## Feedback from MDN about authentication

https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/41594

Simone: SWAG CG is asking for feedback

# Creating a Relationship Binding

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CwBDRbw147YlNld-UOlJ4lGvmpDIOCSI/edit#heading=h.kp911j18z01y

Tom: What is the role of W3C in AI?

Simone: We are opening an IG about. 

Joe: We talked with Simone about how the Web works in China; the bigger challenge is that W3C and SDOs bring togheter the forces to achieve interoperability and innovation. We need to have the solution before standardizing. Also, an Agentic Identity Workshop, and there are still discussions to be had before standardization.

Tom: Can we stop to do identity work on the web? The main problem with identity is that it is also a way to track people, linked to advertising, and to people spending money.

Kevin: Some years ago, if I had an app, I would ask for money —e.g., 6 USD —to enable premium features. The general problem is that if the app is free, you are the product.

Tom: The problem changed rapidly; now they are paying money to access.

Kevin: The interest in this case  is making money, not identity

Joe: Now they ask for money but put ads.

Tom: But now they are not going to a browser. Also, now my TV is telling me what I need to install. But I don't see people bothering with the web. 

Simone: Remember that the web is not only  browser things, we also have some different things 

Joe: As Elica said, this is something  you can reach with a URL, and if a universal resolver can get your service, this is the web, even if sometimes it's a service-to-service to service

Simone: We also have the definition of Mobile Web from Timbl, even if inside a mobile app, we still have HTTP and WebViews, so it is still the web.


## Participants

Simone Onofri

Kevin Dean

Patrick Schaller

Veronica Cristiano

Tommaso Innocenti

Amir Sharif

Tom Jones
