# SING 2025-02-18

Chair: Tommaso Innocenti.

## Participants

Amir Sharif
Greg Bernstein
Joe Andrieu
Kevin Dean
Manu Sporny
Patrick Schaller
Sebastian Crane
Simone Onofri
Tom Jones
Tommaso Innocenti
Veronica Cristiano

## Notes

[slides https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JfOXnRl8dFzUrFxFhHzxwLOe_JbUxkQmdGsOUgxunSc/edit#slide=id.g3204532d1e1_0_26]

### Administrivia
[slide 3]

### New Participants Introduction
[slide 4]

[Participants introduction]


### Threat Model adoption
[slide 5]

Tommaso: we have two adoptions, one for Decentralized Identities

Simone: It was born as an issue for Digital Credentials API, thinking about security features, and ended up as a generic model. 
    
Manu: +1 on using mini-threat models, probabily we can discuss if make sense to integrate with the OID4VC one. In some cases OID4VP has different profiles which has different use and models.

Simone: I agree to have different models, maybe a generic one for the  DC API and a bigger one for the Systemic Risk.

Tom: The problem I think about AI in Browsers is about Prompt Injection, in particular in Blink, also becaouse Website can poison the AI model.

Manu: Is a very imporant thing. It is focused and a good discussion is about the proof of personhood. I wrote a paper also about that. Also another point if we have content on the Web generated by an AI or a Human

Tom: it is important to have a good model, starting with the system model, I think it needs to be really specific, and it is something difficult to have a generic one. For PHC it can be a "delegation" Threat Model, and there is a gap probabily for Delegation on OID side about this feature.

Joe: Delegation is an interesting category, we should think about a specific technology. for the AI TM it should be useful to have a Diagram.

Tom: It is on my todo list, to understand better.

Sebastian: the starting point are Transformers, and in general the previous assumption is that a text was generated by a human, and not it is not the case. We have more indirection for the content we see and the original text. We have also to consider the Trust part. 

Tom: We can also talk about AI agents. We can talk via e-mail about that.

Manu: +1 on having threat model specfics. VC using C2PA are a way to identity the origin of the text.

Simone: We have also the Authentic Web Workshop https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/483

### Charter review feedback
[slide 6]

Tommaso: we started reviewing some chareters

[slide 7]


[slide 8]

Tommaso: FedCM chartert success criteria is an example of a good Success Crtiteria example, also avoiding RFC terminology


### Security Review Group Meeting
[slide 9]

Tommaso: thank you for all answered to the group, we have also created a review template and a Zoom Brekout.

Manu: I am trying to be in the call, as a WG we preprared some documentation that can help https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1a2T1gEuJvgPXsuWaniM8k4jJtu0nbsqsxRGpYrjKzJs/edit#slide=id.p  and https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1d-04kIWhPuNscsAyUuRH3pduqrNerhigCWahKe6SNos/edit#slide=id.g2174b6c9183_0_1364

[slide 10]

Tommaso: This is an idea of a workflow, we're working on the automation of the notification of different channel. So people can comment when it is interested and then assigned.  We have also a template, some breakout sessions and then a plenary discussion.

### Netxt meeting

[slide 11]


### AOB

Manu: target date for VC specs is March, happy to collect feedback before, but the charter allows also to make security fixes
