# SING - 2025-10-14

_Minutes summary from W3C Pad notes_

## Participants

* Simone Onofri
* Amir Sharif
* Tommaso Innocenti
* Zahra Ebadi Ansaroudi
* Tom Jones
* Joe Andrieu
* Giovanni Corti
* Kevin Dean

## Notes

### DID v1.1 Review

* Tommaso Innocenti: I am sharing slides for the DID v1.1 review.

* Joe Andrieu: Both of these elements are based on remote retrieval of context in production. Hashing is not a bad idea, but if there is dynamic retrieval, it is not possible to do that in the same way.

* Joe Andrieu: This is something for the JSON-LD community. The problem is that the URL is retrievable, while the context was not intended as a runtime mutable resource. Asking implementations to check the hash would be a radical change. Retrieval should happen at development time.

* Tommaso Innocenti: How can we guarantee the integrity of the context document?

* Joe Andrieu: In theory, changing the context changes the specification. It is not meant to be a runtime update.

* Tom Jones: This is worse for AI, where the consumer is not a human.

* Kevin Dean: As in XML, these are schema identifiers. They are static.

* Tommaso Innocenti: We can update the proposal text considering the usage of `@context` in the specification. Thank you for the conversation.

* Tommaso Innocenti: I also want to discuss hardening in the change notification channel.

* Joe Andrieu: I am opposed to this notion of monitoring. The problem in this case is surveillance and more centralization.

* Simone Onofri: We are thinking about something more decentralized, such as `emit` in Solidity. But in general, this can be a threat for surveillance.

* Tom Jones: Should this be something supported by phones or browsers?

* Tommaso Innocenti: The idea is to secure the communication channel, for example with authentication.

* Joe Andrieu: A DID resolver looking at the blockchain can be one approach. The question is also whether browsers are going to support different DID methods. This can be part of the problem.

* Tom Jones: Maybe in one year the browser will be gone.

* Joe Andrieu: I am +1 to adding clarification for the fragment, since it is confusing a lot of people. A better description of the fragment can be useful.

### Digital Credentials API Threat Modeling

* Zahra Ebadi Ansaroudi: I am sharing slides on the Digital Credentials API threat modeling work.

### TPAC

* Simone Onofri: I will open the issue and continue the discussion.
