# SING - 2025-11-25

_Minutes summary by Zoom, reviewed Manually_

## Partipants
 - Tommaso
 - Kevin
 - Veronica
 - Joe
 - Simone

## Summary

### Thanksgiving Call 

The group discussed having a short due to the Thanksgiving week in the U.S. and people still recovering from TPAC. Simone mentioned preparing a summary on security at TPAC.

### TPAC Feedback

Simone and Kevin discussed a meeting related to TPAC.They mentioned interactions with WebML, FedID and DID Working group. Simone shared feedback from a breakout session and mentioned updating the group with important points. Veronica added that the Crypto Guideline feedback was positive and there was a lot of interaction at the conference.
### Cryptography usage in Web Standards

The meeting focused on discussing a draft document Cryptography usage in Web Standards, including the addition of hybrid solutions combining post-quantum and classical cryptography. Veronica agreed to merge a request and add an explanation of hybrid solutions to the document.

Simone and Veronica discussed the importance of feedback and collaboration on the topic, with Veronica noting that more work is needed but expressing optimism about the support available.

### Threat Modeling Guide and feedback on Digital Credentials API Threat Model

Joe reported positive engagement with the threat modeling guide work and committed to completing a publicly circulable version before Christmas. He will incorporate feedback from the group, particularly regarding the integration of goals and stakeholders conversation.

Simone mentioned that the feedback from FedID WG, the prepared threat model is too complex and proposed a new format for the security considerations section, which Joe reviewed. The new format would link threat models to specific APIs, define responses, and reference relevant sections in the specification.

Joe and Simone discussed the proposed Security Consideration Sections is about with two pages, while Kevin mentioned a threat model with 20 pages and security considerations with 2 pages. Kevin suggested that the threat model should be maintained as an external document to allow for easier updates and integration into future standards development processes.

The group agreed to create a separate threat model document to simplify updates and focus on relevant topics within the specification. Tommaso raised a concern about ensuring that other standards using the threat model are updated when changes occur. 

Kevin acknowledged this challenge and suggested that the threat model could help guide the direction for revisions. 

The group discussed the need for a mechanism to notify standards that may be affected by changes to the threat model, but no specific solution was proposed.

The group discussed the challenges of getting responses when guidance changes and specifications are finalized, noting that re-evaluation by the original group is unlikely. 

Kevin emphasized that while it's fair to raise issues, expecting a response might be unrealistic due to the difficulty of reconvening groups after specifications are finalized. Joe and Simone agreed, with Joe adding that many technologies are interdependent, making it hard to know who relies on them. 

Joe proposed publishing threat models as registries to enhance their longevity and usability.

The group discussed maintaining a living threat model registry for security considerations.

Joe and Simone agreed that collecting threats in a registry would be beneficial, even if the working group becomes inactive, as it would allow for long-term security maintenance. Kevin supported this idea, and Simone noted that it would be simpler to register new threats using an existing table format.
The team discussed the threat model registry and its limitations, acknowledging that new threats and technologies may emerge that are not currently documented. 
The conversation ended with an agreement to end early if no further topics arose.
