# SING Agenda  - 15 April 2025

## Logistics

The SING call will be held at 14:00 UTC ([The World Clock](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2025&month=04&day=15&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=248&p2=240&p3=234&p4=43&p5=136&p6=48))
| Location                       | Local Time                             | Time Zone | UTC Offset     |
|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------|----------------|
| Tokyo (Japan)                  | Thursday, 15 April 2025, 23:00:00    | JST       | UTC+9 hours    |
| Sydney (Australia – New South Wales) | Wednesday, 16 April 2025, 01:00:00    | AEDT      | UTC+11 hours   |
| Seattle (USA – Washington)     | Wednesday, 15 April 2025, 07:00:00   | PST       | UTC-7 hours    |
| Boston (USA – Massachusetts)   | Wednesday, 15 April 2025, 10:00:00   | EST       | UTC-4 hours    |
| London (United Kingdom – England) | Wednesday, 15 April 2025, 15:00:00   | GMT       | UTC+1 hour            |
| Brussels (Belgium – Brussels)  | Wednesday, 15 April 2025, 16:00:00   | CET       | UTC+2 hours     |


* We are using Zoom for the meeting.
    * Please log in to see the [W3C SING Events Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/security/calendar/) for dial-in details. 
    * Participation is restricted to [SING group participants](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/security/participants/).
    * Minutes will be taken in [W3C Pad](https://pad.w3.org/p/SING_2025-04-15).
    * Join [W3C Community Slack](https://www.w3.org/wiki/Slack) and Join [#sing channel](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C083DKWSAJX) over Slack
    * [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1paoYaWvUjNDEB9-F-Z49K6ioju9OF2VvyOhtXaUAWd0/edit?slide=id.g2af44d64084_1_0#slide=id.g2af44d64084_1_0)


## Agenda

* Administrivia
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?
  * Reminders: 
     * [Interest Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/security/)
     * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Participants Introduction (2 minutes roundtable)
* Security Reviews
    * Work in progress
      * [WebAuthn Spec](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C08DXPX52RJ)
      * [FedCM Spec](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/archives/C08E4DR6Q6Q)
      * [Chinese Web Interest Group re-charter](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/496)
      * [Distributed Tracing Working Group Charter](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/495)
      * [WAI IG recharter](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/441)

  * Reviews that need volunteer(s):
     * [specs](https://github.com/w3c/security-request/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+no%3Aassignee+)   
       * [Web Neural Network API](https://github.com/w3c/security-request/issues/85)
       * [Web App Scope Extensions](https://github.com/w3c/security-request/issues/83)
       * [WebRTC API](https://github.com/w3c/security-request/issues/80)
     * [charters](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Horizontal+review+requested%22++-label%3A%22Security+review+completed%22+-label%3ACouncil)
       * [Chinese Web Interest Group re-charter](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/496)
       * [WAI IG recharter](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/441)
       * [Distributed Tracing Working Group Charter](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/495)

 * Group Deliverables:
  * Threat Model for the Web (volunteers?)
  * Threat Modeling Guide (1 volunteer, we're strarting)

* Threat Models/Security Topics
 * Availability to review protocols for the Digital Credentials API
 * Quantum Cryptography in W3C standards (@TomCJones)
 * AI In the Browser (@TomCJones): defining the scope

* Next meetings
  * 29 April 2025
  * 13 May 2025

* AOB
  * Geneva Conference: Organizing a Threat Modeling session on Day 2 (@Asharif)
  * [What could go wrong with the Digital Credentials API @IIW 40](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p01KLpBvKk7_tRrlaVxljXFQyMfWKvIsN83lkMx7qj0/edit?tab=t.0)
  
# Notes

- Simone:
   - Some work in progress.
   - Security questionnaire completed Friday for WebAuthn
   - Thank you for all people who reviewed the Verifiable Credentials specification
   - Good collaboration between the VC people and the security people
   - I have already analyzed the Chinese Web Interest Group charter and nothing of note from that review.
   - In China, the web is a bit different, and there are a lot of huge applications, like AliPay and WeChat.
   - They have web applications inside web applications.
   - I would like to ask this group to have a collaboration with us.
   - This will require a different model for the web than the traditional one.
   - I haven't looked at the Distributed Tracing Working Group charter, but there are not a lot of things to do.
   - Also in this case, we don't have a specific relationship with accessibility for the WAI IG, which is being rechartered.
   - Some new requests that require volunteers (see slides).
   - On the group deliverables side, we have the threat model for the web, which requires volunteers, and the threat modeling guide, which we're starting.
   - The Digital Credentials API will be adopted in a few days.
   - At the moment we have different protocols for QR Codes.
   - The API is down the pipe, and is going to leverage different protocols: OpenID4VP, ISO, MDL.
   - The group proposed that for a protocol to be supported (added to the registry) the Security Interest Group review the protocol first.
   - I'm going to send an email or open an issue on this.
   - At least for the people connected, is this a good idea?
(No objections.)
  - Per Tom's request, I'm going to change "Quantum Cryptography" to "Post-Quantum Cryptography".
    
- Tom: At the last meeting, we talked about a new elliptic curve being added to the standards, and this was being mixed up with the post-quantum cryptography.
    - I'm concerned that people aren't paying attention to what will happen when quantum cryptography becomes a reality.
    - Something like a trust mark may have a very long duration.
    - W3C is still publishing standards using RSA, which is very concerning. We shouldn't be using RSA or EC in new standards.
    -  If we don't move away from them, we're going to have a big problem when cryptography is broken.

 - Veronica: I see your point, but about the position of EDSA, there is a draft by NIST that EDSA will be disallowed after 2035, same for ECDSA.
    - For at least 20 years, we can use the classical algorithms.
    - There is a lot of attention by experts to deploy hybrid solutions with two primitives with classical and post-quantum algorithms.
    - With hybrid solutions, we are safe if even one of the two is broken.
    - With the classical primitive, we defend against potential problems in new quantum algorithms.
    - This approach is an important step in the full transition to post-quantum cryptography.
    - It's not a matter of replacing the classical algorithm with a post-quantum one.
    - You have to make assumptions about the size of the keys.
    - They have different paradigms.
    - A hybrid solution is easier and has security benefits.
    - I think it's important to spend time with classical algorithms, as we will need them for at least the next 10 years.
  - Samuel: To add, there are a lot of concrete areas where classical algorithms can create real privacy benefits for users and can set the stage for the use of post-quantum algorithms.
  - Tom: When you look at crypto lifecycles, you have to look at when the key is used to sign versus when it is used to check a signature.
    - If you can't use a crypto signature after 2035, you can't sign anything after 2032, as they have to have a three year life.
    - The reality may be that we do not have until 2035.
    - My point is that we shouldn't use examples that will not be in place in 10 years.
    - Does everybody understand the difference between making the key and using the key?
(No comments.)
   - See NIST 800-57 for differences between the two.
  
  - Samuel: I have seen these in action in privacy pass, which is very short-lived.
     - I'm invested in finding non-RSA solutions to these.
     - For these privacy-preserving use cases, we don't have something we can slot in there.
     - The classical algorithms are still being standardized, and work is happing on post-quantum in parallel.
- Tom: The right direction is correct, but we're not moving fast enough.
    - The wallet standards that are coming through have trust registries but they're not focused on long term (a couple years).
    - Federation standard is talking about long-lived keys, but still about RSA.
    - The most severe case is its use for trust registries.
- Samuel: In a world where we're hammering on post-quantum schemes, as there is less incentive to crack them, we're going to have hybrid schemes as people pursue post-quantum schemes.
    - Saying we should swap everything out tomorrow is a privacy and security risk.
- Simone: Some work in the Credentials Community Group is being down for post-quantum cryptography.
    - We need post-quantum proofs, which will be necessary for future wallet discussions.
    - I'm thinking for providing guidance on how to use cryptography and maybe also specifying that we're in transition to quantum cryptography.
    - My feeling when Tom was talking is that it's not just in one place, it's everything.
    - This was a hot topic during CFMG discussions.
- Greg: There's a lot of work on hybrid key encapsulation mechanism.
    - ML-DSA and Falcon should be coming up.
    - With current standards for Data Integrity under VC model, you can have signature sets, which is easier than key encapsulation.
    - For some of this, are we talking about the cryptography that goes into the APIs? What aspect of the browser are we talking about vs TLS?
    - Talking in general about cryptography on the web is huge.
- Tom: I don't think we need to talk about TLS much as its the keys that are long-lived.
    - Right now the UD wallet is under fire from cryptographers.
- Simone: Maybe we can sync with Amir about EUDI Wallet.
    - Now, to Tom for discussion about AI in the Browser.
    - There are some issues we should get an understanding of.
    - Some were raised by Google directly.
    - There were questions about the specific scope of this model.
- Tom: The question about the scope is when does it apply. The scope should be limited to AIs that learn from the question that's being asked of them.
    - In some cases, you can poison the AI by asking questions via JavaScript prior to sending you a request that the AI deals with, essentially doing cross-site scripting.
- Joe: The area of scope that I was concerned about is what is the integration surface with the browser? Are we talking about websites that embed an AI in the form, AI in an extension, AI in the browser itelf?
- Tom: It's hard to answer the question in that respect. You first have to answer what is the threat.
    - We're only talking about AIs that can be accessed through JavaScript.
    - If the internal state of the AI isn't changed by the question, then there is no problem.
- Joe: I'm starting to understand more where you're heading. Is there a difference between JavaScript acting on an extensions different from JavaScript acting on the browser itself?
- Tom: I'm concerned with AI being shipped as part of the browser.
- Joe: We're seeing extensions in the wild. Which one of these are we going to model?
- Tom: At the very least, we should talk about native vs. extension.
    - I'll have to go away and think about that.
    - The problem is when the AI is changed by the queries.
- Samuel: I see the problem when the AI context is viewed in different contexts, e.g., an extension that exposes data across sites.
    - Similarly, an AI in a browser has the same concerns.
- Tom: I should be clear about the threat, I should describe the attacks. You can imagine if there's an AI in the browser and a web site can ask a bunch of queries before the user accesses it, the web site can poison the AI.
- Samuel: I think that this can happen even without JavaScript. In HTML, you can have prompt injections.
- Tom: I'll add some detail on the threat.
- Etienne: I'm one of the persons who opened an issue, clarifying how Chrome operates and how it can be changed.
- Tom: Are you asking how poisoning works?
- Etienne: I think making it clear what the threats would be makes sense.
- Samuel: I think describing a simple example of poisoning would be helpful.
- Tom: The poisoning I'm talking about is before the user interacts with the AI.
- Etienne: I think it's good to think about these and perhaps have a session to discus.
- Simone: Thinking about actions, Tom to update AI threat model.
    - I'm thinking about definitions for attacks.
    - On the web side, Veronica and others can think about drafting the use of cryptography in standards.
    - Any other business? No.
    - We'll be at the Geneva conference for the wallet. Anyone interested in joining, send me an email.
    - I had a quick session on threat modeling for privacy at IIW 40.

# Participants

- Simone Onofri (chair)
- Kevin Dean (scribe) << thank you for scribing!!!
- Joe Andrieu
- Patrick Schaller
- Greg Bernstein
- Tom Jones
- Veronica Cristiano
- Samuel Schlesinger
- Etienne Noël

