# SING 2025-06-10

## Notes

### Introductions

- Alberto:
   - I am from the north of Spain, interested in web security, privacy, and browser, also interested in the CTF community
 
- Tom:
  - Working on threat models for 20 years, now interested in AI agents

- Samuel: 
  - Work in Google on AD fraud, privacy, and security
     
- Patrick:
  - Work at ETH Zurich as Senior Scientist for Security protocols and cryptography

- Veronica:
  - Cryptographer, studied math, I work for Telsy, an Italian security company, as a cryptographer, on the practical use of cryprography

- Kevin:
  - Legendary Requirements, working in threat modeling and standards work in different W3C groups
     
### Charters
- Simone:
  - I see no security issues. If no objections, I'll mark it as reviewed.
[APWG no objections]

### XML Signature

- Veronica:
    - In general, it's good.
    - I doubt HSS/LMS, as these are stateful signatures intended for particular scenarios.
    - Briefly, they have some problems with memory.
    - NIST suggests using them only for specific cases, e.g., firmware authentication. Others are okay.

- Tom:
  - Some people use OpenID Connect, and I asked them two years ago. They were not moaning.

- Simone:
  - XML Signatures follow-up with Donald and people from OpenID.

- Veronica:
  - I'll also work on the Crypto document

### AI 
- Tom: [presenting the screen]
  - similar to the Apple approach- When we navigate, that website can download the LLM, having access to an AI agent, that can be in the browser
  The application can poison the model by making a bunch of queries, and then when the user makes a call into the browser, the AI will already be poisoned. This is the core problem. If you have scriptable agents, they can poison the AI before the user.
 - The mail threat is poisoning the LLM; only the user browsing is causing the problem. The core problem is scripting the AI from a random website
 
- Sam:
  - I don't work on this project, and speaking as an individual. The question is the cross-communication vector, which is also a privacy threat/privacy invasion

- Tom:
 - They proposed a mitigation. Before the JS can access the LLM, it can create a session and all the communications from JS to the local AI.
 - The session is limited to the site, which would mitigate the XSS attack. This is for Gemini, don't 

- Sam:
     - This is general to a scriptable agent; it is an issue. A general argument
     - from a practical level, similar to the extensions
     - If AI can read the web, it can be poisoned
     - This is a core objective of AI safety

- Tom:
    - If the user asks a series of questions, it will form a context, and it can be poisoned
    - The threat I am concerned about is that a random website can poison the LLM, and the website
    - any scriptable client

- Joe:
   - This is a general problem, if I have an AI looking at my browsing, each website can be an injection point

- Tom: 
     - Gemini nano requires a session to be created
     
- Joe:
     - This is another point about the agentic AI looking at a webpage, so this is another attack
     
- Sam:
     I agree with Joe. This is a general problem that needs to be mitigated regarding how AI exists on the web.
     
- Simone:
     - We have two scenarios:
          - Webpages that are trying to poison the local LLM  by calling a JS API
          - An AI Agent visits webpages, and they can be poisoned
          
- Joe: 
   - Threat modeling conference in BCN, and to understand,
  - One  of the things is that the web is crazy complex, the web is not a "thing", and not versioned, there is a lot of complexity
  - Bringing complexity in a single diagram, a simple one, probably a browser and a server, and contemplating also DNS and SSL/TLS (even if they are not part of the W3C technology)
  - We can have different components, e.g., CSS, GPU, Networking, JS, WebAssembly, and each W3C specification should be placed in a specific concept, with threats and mitigations, like a cobblestone road. 
  - In between the two extremes, we have to understand how these components talk to each other, and what is in the middle
     
- Simone:
  - We should also consider Security requirements

- Tom: 
  - Internet or web?


- Joe:
  - I have a distinction between the internet and the web; it is an open and hard question.
  - e.g., web is something with a URL

- Tom: 
   - I am also prone to consider  HTTP/HTTPS

- Simone:
  - It is interesting to have the HTTP response in which a specific component manages the header and the body differently; sometimes the scope can be flexible or a gradient.


## Participants (self-signup)
- Samuel Schlesinger (Google)
- Veronica Cristiano (Invited Expert)
- Patrick Schaller (ETHZ)
- Kevin Dean (Legendary Requirements)
- Joe Andreiu (Legendary Requirements)
- Alberto Fernandez-de-Retana (Invited)
