# SING - 2025-09-19

# Agenda

## Next Meetings
- Next meeting will be on 30 Sept
- TPAC and breakout sessions

## Reviews

### DID Methods
 - Joe: Ask them about TM
 
### Web Extensions
- Simone: We can ask for collaboration and security

## Security Topics

### IdP in the middle
 - Tom: Issue https://github.com/w3c/securityig/issues/24, we can bring up in FedCM and check if this can apply to DC API

### AI Threat Model

- Simone: on Agentic AI, this can be another document
- Tom: I am also working with OID for this. Poisoning can occur at different levels. Mainly Prompt Attacks. We don't have a common definition of an agent
- Simone:  Let's start with the basic case, which is that when we use the web, we always do so through a browser, which is defined as a user agent. So maybe I enter my W3C credentials to access the various internal features. Then let's say I need to enter my bank holidays into the internal system, and I have the list on the municipal website. To optimize time, I can create a Playwright script (a Python library that instantiates a browser and automates tasks) to download the holiday list and enter it into the internal application using the credentials I have provided. This is obviously (relatively) deterministic software. If I use an AI agent, I technically don't have total control over what happens, as it's not deterministic. However, the issue is very similar, and it's not a significant change.
- Joe: Good, that user is different from the user agent, also to work on local networks, e.g., Bluetooth
- Tom: MCP problem in general. The question is whether we're giving our credentials to an agent to act on our behalf, using them around the world. It isn't good.
- Joe: Yes, it isn't good, same when I am using my driving license. It is also a question of legal liability, and a proof of personhood credentials
- Tom: Yes, we're always mediated. There is a question of "Autonomous agent"; we should use derived credentials
- Joe: There was an example at IIW years ago, about some business that uses your bank credentials for doing things.
- Tom: If you like, I am working on this document https://docs.google.com/document/d/1483WFetwfVpuXKhp0OIOjp0sAUK4V7ik/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109794657323597753486&rtpof=true&sd=tru


### Harm Modeling
 - Simone: We have some work, mainly for Decentralized Identities in the meta threat model, some work by Amir and colleagues on NDIS, always starting from Harm Modeling by Microsoft. There are some transactions also at the UN level on how to integrate these concepts into standards

### DC API 
- Zahra: We already discussed in the last meeting that there is one last point about point 6. Registration orientation is unclear 
- Tom: Yes, good to have this registry
- Simone: There are strong positions on the usage of a register or not
- Zahra: One of the use cases is the EUDI Wallet
- Tom: Yes, but this is before the Wallet. This is not just about the Web; the question also involves the protocol, understanding the channel, and then applying it to manage this. 
 - Zahra: My expectation from the RP from this exchange protocol, not the BLE, and if the wallet application has this capability.
 - Joe:  Tom, you're talking about at the device level, probably of a different use case; on the EUDI, for example, if I'm in a different jurisdiction than the EU, why do I need to have protocols imposed by another jurisdiction, that is why I think it is good not to having a registry, it is a centralization. We're also 
- Tom: 
- Simone: similar case on mobile phones
- Tom: This was solved by LTE, but it was a top-down approach by ITU
- Joe: This is similar to the internet, with DNS, we're doing it with Decentralized Identifiers
 - Tom: First thing we need is a taxonomy.
 - Simone: There is something (also for threats), Savaren from TAG pointed me, https://w3id.org/dpv/, https://w3id.org/dpv/risk, and https://w3id.org/dpv/tech

# Participants
- Simone
- Tom
- Patrick
- Joe
- Zahra
