#  SING 2025-03-04

[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k29WTuJ46g0UYBD1SHTcndT_0FuwjU0DnKp-JDDEvWg/edit#slide=id.g31666e027a8_0_54)

## Participants

* Manu Sporny (Digital Bazaar)
* Simone Onofri (W3C)
* Joe Andrieu (Legendary Requirements)
* Greg Bernstein (Grotto Networking)
* Kevin Dean (Legendary Requirements)
* Tom Jones (Independent)
* Denis Roio (Dyne.org)
* Patrick Schaller (ETHZ)

## Administrativia

The security category in the W3C reviewers leaderboard is working now (and Simone is on top for now)
[slide 2]

## New Participants introduction

[slide 3]
No new participants

## Charters Review

[slide 4]

No new charters to review

## Specifications Review

[slide 5]

Simone: Big backlog
...New spec request for Web App Scope extensions (WD), if someone wants to volunteer for it, please do
...The VCWG 7 specifications review, Data Integrity moved forward last week, writing that up now
...w3c/security request issues open: pay particular attention to those with CR or LC (last-call) labels
...contact chairs to get assigned to reviews
Manu: When do we expect to see review of DI?
Simone: Feedback will hopefully be done this/next week -- don't think there are big issues, personally.

## Security Reviews Breakout Sessions

[slide 6]

Simone: We do have breakout sessions for FedCM, VCDI, and Web Authentication.
Simone: If someone is interested in first review, look at review template, links that are being used are on the slides.


## Adopted Threat Models

[slide 7]

Simone: I have adopted threat models -- reviewing issues, scope, etc. Move models after closing issues.

Manu: Kevin/Joe can we share the retail threat model for Conexxus with this group?

Kevin: Yes, that should be good, we should share if Conexxus is interested in sharing.

Joe: Yes, shared personally with Simone, but we should try to collaborate more.

Tom: Is this forecourt stuff, is it Web-based?

Manu: Yes, it's fully web-based, built on W3C-standards.

Simone: What's the scope of Digital Identities threat model? When we were thinking of threat model, we were thinking of Digital Credentials API, that's a lot of points that were borne on different parts, at credential level, maybe out of scope, but it can influence... start at credentials, move to other levels, etc. Maybe we have high-level threat models and then mini-threat models. Difficult to have generic threat model, borne for specific architecture.

Manu: What level of review do we want to do with DC API, VCs, mDL, etc? I'm concerned that if we go too deeply on things that W3C does not have the power to change that we just invite negative attention w/o being able to change much of anything.

Manu: Maybe we do analysis at ecosystem threat model, then protocol threat model, then data model threat model.

Samuel Schlesinger: I work at Google, maybe I can help send concerns through proper channels.

Joe: Wanted to support Manu's suggestion that we have specific architecture that we're supporting.

Manu: We have limited resources as a young group, where can we be most effective with our work?

Tom: It seems strange to integrate both privacy and security into the same threat model. We are trying to analyze single systems using the threat model, and ecosystem threat model seems to not be specific enough to do that.

Joe: We might want to pull in different models to mix/match threats people want to identify into a specific model.

Simone: We have a list of threats, what will happen, we should discuss this in more depth in the future weeks.


## Next Meetings

[slide 8]

Simone: Our next meetings are March 18th and then April 1st.

## AOB

Denis: Threat Modeling CG would be a good place to enter in contact with the Threat Modeling world... as the IG needs formal invitation and we're focused on Security

Samuel: Threat modelling work on local devices, maybe present that here? Interested in having that work observed here -- on device attackers are really important threats.
